1. What is cloud computing?
Ans. Cloud computing is the delivery of on-demand computing services from applications to storage and processing power
typically over the internet and on pay-as-you-go basis.

2. Advantages of cloud over dedicated servers?
Ans. 1. Flexibility and Scalability
With Cloud Server technology, you get incredible scalability as well as flexibility across all the platforms with 
enhanced storage choices. You have the option to pick any of the cloud platforms whether it is public, private
or hybrid according to your requirement.

The most appreciated thing about Cloud is, whenever you think that your business requirements are now changing 
you can easily reframe it automatically. It means you get flexibility along with scalability.
You would not get privileges of such a kind with Dedicated Server.

2. Enhanced Server Uptime
Server uptime of any website is one of the biggest reasons which direct the performance of the website. 
With Cloud Hosting, you get maximum server uptime and there is not a single risk of network failure.

Because Cloud Server is the system of interconnected servers, therefore, at any point of time one server
is not able to take any request then automatically one of the multiple servers will get active and rescue your data.Dedicated Server can handle the workload at a particular level. Beyond this level, you can see hardware failures and downtimes.

On the other hand, dedicated servers can handle the workload at a particular level. Beyond this level, 
you can see hardware failures and downtimes.

3. More Security
Cloud Server provides you full security so that you never worry about the loss of your valuable data. 
All the time, your data is kept on the cloud that gives you a greater form of security. 
Cloud server also ensures data safety with the help of customer identity management, storage diversification 
and firewall backups.

You do not get this kind of security check with Dedicated Servers

4. Promote Group Collaboration
Cloud Server allows you to access your network from all over the world. The benefit of this is that employees
of a company can work on the same project from multiple locations. 
This promotes fast and smart working along with flexibility in work.

You cannot enjoy this facility with Dedicated Server.

5. No Downtime
Cloud Servers are fully backed up and moved in-between data centers. 
This means that in case of a system failure or complete data center failures, you can continue your work 
without any problem. You will not experience any downtime, even some of the web hosts are now offering 100% uptime.

6. Compititive Edge
With new players coming in the market, competition has become quite tough. 
Therefore, Cloud Server is certainly your need of the day. 
The reason being that cloud service providers give you the best technology and improved service. 
Transferring to the cloud provides you the opportunity to go with the latest technology and have an 
edge over your competitors.

7. Cost Effectiveness
From the financial viewpoint, a cloud server is much cheaper as compared to a dedicated server. 
In Cloud, you are working on a virtual system. Therefore, you need not initiate capital expenditure for 
the setup of hardware. You can choose your plan as per your need.

Dedicated servers are quite more expensive as you have to pay for the services or resources that are provided to you.
Also, in the event of any disaster, costs could further go up.

8. Management
One final benefit of choosing Cloud Server vs Dedicated Server is that Cloud Server is completely controlled and 
managed by you only. Therefore, the entire responsibility of security, management and operating software is to be 
taken care by you. There is no interference of any third party.Dedicated Server, entire management regarding server 
is done by the service providers. So, you need not be worried about the management related concerns about the servers.

In a dedicated server, the entire management regarding server is done by the service providers. 
You need not be worried about any management related concerns